# Consumer Perception Analysis

<h1>Table of Contents<span class="tocSkip"></span></h1>
<div class="toc"><ul class="toc-item"><li><span><a href="#Problem-Statement" data-toc-modified-id="Problem-Statement-1">Problem Statement</a></span></li><li><span><a href="#Executive-Summary" data-toc-modified-id="Executive-Summary-2">Executive Summary</a></span></li><li><span><a href="#Importing-Libraries" data-toc-modified-id="Importing-Libraries-3">Importing Libraries</a></span></li><li><span><a href="#Data-Cleaning" data-toc-modified-id="Data-Cleaning-4">Data Cleaning</a></span><ul class="toc-item"><li><span><a href="#Renaming-Columns" data-toc-modified-id="Renaming-Columns-4.1">Renaming Columns</a></span></li><li><span><a href="#Correcting-user-input" data-toc-modified-id="Correcting-user-input-4.2">Correcting user input</a></span></li><li><span><a href="#Creating-Dummy-Variables" data-toc-modified-id="Creating-Dummy-Variables-4.3">Creating Dummy Variables</a></span></li><li><span><a href="#Adjusting-Data-Types" data-toc-modified-id="Adjusting-Data-Types-4.4">Adjusting Data Types</a></span><ul class="toc-item"><li><span><a href="#Adjusting-user-preference-based-on-their-selection-of-'All-of-the-Above'-to-Question-8-in-the-survey" data-toc-modified-id="Adjusting-user-preference-based-on-their-selection-of-'All-of-the-Above'-to-Question-8-in-the-survey-4.4.1">Adjusting user preference based on their selection of 'All of the Above' to Question 8 in the survey</a></span></li></ul></li></ul></li><li><span><a href="#EDA" data-toc-modified-id="EDA-5">EDA</a></span><ul class="toc-item"><li><span><a href="#Examining-the-Target-Variable-(How-Likely-One-Would-Attend-an-Event)" data-toc-modified-id="Examining-the-Target-Variable-(How-Likely-One-Would-Attend-an-Event)-5.1">Examining the Target Variable (How Likely One Would Attend an Event)</a></span></li><li><span><a href="#Examining-the-Demographics-of-Respondents" data-toc-modified-id="Examining-the-Demographics-of-Respondents-5.2">Examining the Demographics of Respondents</a></span></li><li><span><a href="#Examining-the-Willingness-to-Purchase-Products-at-Live-Events" data-toc-modified-id="Examining-the-Willingness-to-Purchase-Products-at-Live-Events-5.3">Examining the Willingness to Purchase Products at Live Events</a></span><ul class="toc-item"><li><span><a href="#Food-and-Drinks" data-toc-modified-id="Food-and-Drinks-5.3.1">Food and Drinks</a></span></li><li><span><a href="#Merchandise" data-toc-modified-id="Merchandise-5.3.2">Merchandise</a></span></li></ul></li><li><span><a href="#Examining-the-Respondents-View-on-Safety-Protocols" data-toc-modified-id="Examining-the-Respondents-View-on-Safety-Protocols-5.4">Examining the Respondents View on Safety Protocols</a></span></li><li><span><a href="#Looking-at-Correlations" data-toc-modified-id="Looking-at-Correlations-5.5">Looking at Correlations</a></span><ul class="toc-item"><li><span><a href="#Turning-Remaining-Categorical-Values-into-Dummy-Variables" data-toc-modified-id="Turning-Remaining-Categorical-Values-into-Dummy-Variables-5.5.1">Turning Remaining Categorical Values into Dummy Variables</a></span></li><li><span><a href="#Correlation-Table" data-toc-modified-id="Correlation-Table-5.5.2">Correlation Table</a></span></li></ul></li></ul></li><li><span><a href="#Conclusion" data-toc-modified-id="Conclusion-6">Conclusion</a></span></li><li><span><a href="#Recommendations" data-toc-modified-id="Recommendations-7">Recommendations</a></span></li></ul></div>

___
## Problem Statement

Octagon Sports and Entertainment Agency has reached out to our team in an effort to streamline the 'check-in' process when attending live events. They are looking for an application based solution where attendees will be able to enter and navigate through the venue in a contactless fashion.

In order to create ways to streamline the 'check-in' process at live events it is important to have an understanding of the consumer perception during the COVID-19 pandemic. 

The team will create a survey to gather data and analyze it to provide insights to Software Engineers and User Experience Designers which will intern use them to create an application that is tailored to the needs of the consumer and increase not only the willingness of people to attend the events, but also their overall satisfaction when attending. Questions in the survey will also be targeted toward the consumer's perception of safety protocols and the purchasing of products at the venue to determine what key features should be included in the design of the application. 

___

## Executive Summary
The purpose of this project is to analyze the data gathered through a 10 question survey to provide actionable insights for the Software Engineers and User Experience Designers to develop an application that will streamline the event experience as well as increase consumer satisfaction. 

Data Collection was the first step in achieving our goal. This was done through the creation of a 10 question survey that would indicate how the public felt about certain aspects of live events. These aspects are: willingness to attend during a pandemic, willingness to purchase products at the venue, and what respondents felt was the most important safety protocol.

We used Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) to identify the underlying features that contributed to a person's willingness to attend. The EDA suggests that there is not enough diversity in the respondents due to our limited ability to distribute the survey in the given time-frame. However, the summary statistics and visualizations were able to shed light on some key features such as employment status and level of education as well as showing us which safety protocols were most important to the respondents.

These findings were communicated to the Software Engineers and User Experience Design teams to develop an application that would best attract users.
 ___
## Conclusions and Recommendations 

 According to the survey respondents are not likely to attend live events. However, upon looking closely at the data we can see that there are certain groups where the willingness is higher than others. Such groups include College students as well as respondents who are Employed. This information could be useful for marketing strategies as it provides a target audience during the COVID-19 pandemic. Furthermore, if people were to attend live events they are on the fence about purchasing products leaning towards 'not willing'. This could be due to the experience of purchasing products including waiting in line and crowding around the sale points. This issue could be resolved by implementing a way for attendees to place orders remotely and have them collect their products when they are ready. This would greatly reduce the risk of crowding in certain areas of the venues, possibly changing the willingness of attendees do purchase more things.

Furthermore, the analysis pinpointed the most important safety protocols for the respondents. If event organizers were to enforce the use of masks, and social distancing, it would make the consumer feel more comfortable about attending. The third safety protocol was that the event was held outdoors, which is not something that is always feasible. However, if given a choice as an event planner then opting for the outdoor venue would make your attendee even more comfortable possibly increasing attendance as well as consumer satisfaction.

In order to make this study more meaningful and representative of the entire population more time is needed to create a well thought out series of questions that would allow us to collect as much pertinent data as possible. There were only 70 respondents to the survey and due to our limited ability to distribute it, many of the respondents came from similar backgrounds and life styles. Creating a comprehensive survey that would allow us to gather more data on consumer perception and distribute it to random people across the US would provide far greater insights. These insights would then be given to developers to create an app that would streamline the event experience while providing features that would increase consumer satisfaction as well as business revenues. 